Interim Injunction Order granted by the High Court against promotion, encouragement and incitement of the use or threat of violence via internet-based platform or medium The Secretary for Justice as guardian of the public interest applied to the Court yesterday (October 31) for an ex parte injunction (High Court Intended Action 202or 2019) to restrain persons from unlawfully and wilfully conducting themselves in any of the following acts :- (a) Wilfully disseminating, circulating, publishing or re-publishing on any internet-based platform or medium (including but not limited to LIHKG and Telegram) any material or information that promotes, encourages or incites the use or threat of violence, intended or likely to cause :- (i) bodily injury to any person unlawfully within Hong Kong; or (ii) damage to any property unlawfully within Hong Kong. (b) Assisting, causing, counselling, procuring, instigating, inciting, aiding, abetting or authorizing others to commit any of the aforesaid acts or participate in any of the aforesaid acts. Since this June, there have been numerous instances of violent protests and vandalising acts in many districts of Hong Kong including but not limited to criminal damage to property, assaults of the person, riots and arson.  The use of internet-based platform or medium, given its anonymous and instantaneous nature in communication as well as accessibility, have been abused by some to incite protesters to participate in unlawful activities, to promote the use of weapons and to mobilise protesters to damage targeted properties and injure targeted individuals (in particular police officers).  Such acts have seriously breached public peace, and posed a grave and genuine danger to the police and members of the public. The Secretary for Justice seeks this injunctive order to restrain such abusive use of internet-based platform or medium. The Court has granted an interim injunction which will remain in force up to and including Friday, 15 November 2019 at 10:30 a.m.. Protestors participating in unauthorized assembly in Victoria Park Attention duty announcers, radio and TV stations: Please broadcast the following message as soon as possible and repeat it at suitable intervals: An application for a public event to be held in Victoria Park, Causeway Bay in the afternoon today (November 2) was objected by Police earlier on. The Appeal Board on Public Meetings and Processions also voted down the appeal. Disregarding the rulings, some protestors have been gathering in Victoria Park since 2pm today. Police have repeatedly warned the crowd at the scene that they are committing the offence of “Participating in an unauthorized assembly”. Some protestors are masked and are violating the Prohibition on Face Covering Regulation.  Police warn all protestors to leave immediately and stop occupying the road. Police also appeal to the public not to participate in the public meeting. Dispersal and arrest action will be taken as appropriate. Police warn violent protestors to stop illegal acts Attention duty announcers, radio and TV stations: Please broadcast the following message as soon as possible and repeat it at suitable intervals: At around 4pm, some violent protestors charged Police cordon line on Hennessy Road near Canal Road Flyover. Having given repeated warnings to the protestors but in vain, Police officers have deployed tear gas to disperse the protestors. Protestors also built barricades with mill barriers and a football gantry at Victoria Park and the vicinity, including Hennessy Road and Kingston Street. Police warn the protestors to stop all illegal acts. Dispersal and arrest action will be taken. Residents in the area are reminded to stay tuned to the latest situation and keep windows closed if necessary so as to reduce the impact of tear gas. Masked rioters set fire and vandalise shops on Hong Kong Island Attention duty announcers, radio and TV stations: Please broadcast the following message as soon as possible and repeat it at suitable intervals: At around 5pm today (November 2), some masked rioters set fire on barricades built with traffic cones and mill barriers in Wan Chai area. Some masked rioters also vandalised shops and committed arson.  Some even placed nails on the roads threatening the safety of all road users. Besides, a large group of masked rioters hurled bricks and hard objects at Police cordon line and Police vehicles in Hennessy Road and Fleming Road. Some masked rioters also occupied Island Eastern Corridor earlier on. Police warned the rioters to stop all illegal actions. Having given repeated warnings to the protestors but in vain, Police officers have deployed tear gas to disperse the rioters in Wan Chai and Causeway Bay areas, arrest action will be taken as appropriate. Members of the public should mind their personal safety and avoid travelling to the areas concerned. The report room services of Wan Chai Police Station are now suspended.  In case of emergency, please call 999. Large scale of violent conflicts occur on Hong Kong Island Police stop two public events in Central Attention duty announcers, radio and TV stations: Please broadcast the following message as soon as possible and repeat it at suitable intervals: Due to various large scale unlawful assemblies, occupying of roads, violent conflicts and breach of the peace on Hong Kong Island, for public safety and public order, according to section 17 of Cap. 245 Public Order Ordinance, Police stop the two public events in Central area, though Letters of No Objection were issued. The organisers of the two public events shall follow the instruction of Police and arrange protestors to leave the scene in an orderly manner. Police appeal to all members of the public not to participate in any related public events in Central. Masked rioters set fire and hurl petrol bombs on Hong Kong Island Police make arrest action Attention duty announcers, radio and TV stations: Please broadcast the following message as soon as possible and repeat it at suitable intervals: At around 5pm today (November 2), a large group of rioters used umbrellas as cover and repeatedly threw petrol bombs towards police officers at multiple locations on Hong Kong Island. Besides setting fire on barricades, shops and MTR stations in various locations, masked rioters also hurled bricks at police officers and police vehicles. Having given repeated warnings to the rioters in vain, Police officers have deployed tear gas and Specialised Crowd Management Vehicles to disperse them. Police warn the rioters to stop their illegal acts. A number of arrests have been made and arrest action will continue as appropriate. Masked protestors assault bystanders in Tsim Sha Tsui Attention duty announcers, radio and TV stations: Please broadcast the following message as soon as possible and repeat it at suitable intervals: A large group of masked protestors are occupying roads in Tsim Sha Tsui area, some of them even hurled petrol bombs on Haiphong Road.  This afternoon, several violent conflicts occurred between masked rioters and bystanders, a female was spray-painted on Park Lane Shopper's Boulevard and three men were assaulted on Nathan Road near Haiphong Road.  At around 6pm, a masked rioter threw feces at police officers on Nathan Road near Granville Road. Police warned rioters to stop occupying the roads and all illegal acts.  Dispersal and arrest action will continue in Tsim Sha Tsui.  The report room services of Tsim Sha Tsui Police Station are now suspended.  In case of emergency, please call 999. Masked rioters block roads, set fire and damage facilities in Kowloon Attention duty announcers, radio and TV stations: Please broadcast the following message as soon as possible and repeat it at suitable intervals: At around 9pm, masked rioters are recklessly damaging facilities in Jordan, Yau Ma Tei and Mong Kok areas.  Some even set fire on Mong Kok MTR exits and outside a shop. Some also blocked Argyle Street and Nathan Road near Yau Ma Tei with barricades and dug bricks from pavements in Jordan area. Police warn all rioters to stop all illegal acts. The Police have made arrests in the area earlier and arrest action will continue. Masked rioters assault passer-by and strip his underwear Attention duty announcers, radio and TV stations: Please broadcast the following message as soon as possible and repeat it at suitable intervals: At around 10pm, numerous masked rioters assaulted two passers-by on two separate occasions. The rioters battered one of the victims in Shantung Street in Mong Kok and stripped his clothes, trousers and even underwear in front of the public. Police have zero tolerance against all violence against innocent citizens.  Arrest actions in the areas are underway.   Police warn rioters to stop brutalizing citizens. Police strongly condemn violent and vandalistic acts Violent protests and vandalistic acts occurred in multiple districts on Hong Kong Island and in Kowloon yesterday (November 2). Police express strong condemnation against rioters. Despite Police’s objection, many people took part in an unlawful assembly in Victoria Park since about 2pm yesterday which turned out to be massive vandalistic acts.  Rioters first blocked a number of thoroughfares in Causeway Bay and Wan Chai with mills barriers and miscellaneous objects. They then set fires to barricades and hurled petrol bombs, bricks and hard objects at police officers.  Some even placed nails on roads, threatening the safety of road users and residents nearby. Later, rioters popped up in various districts on Hong Kong Island and in Kowloon. They blocked roads with miscellaneous objects. Some rioters extensively vandalised and burnt selected shops and damaged MTR facilities in an organized manner. Some rioters even attacked passers-by. Due to the deteriorating situation, Police stopped two public events in Central district  in order to safeguard public safety and public order, according to the Public Order Ordinance, though Letters of No Objection had been issued. The organisers were requested to follow the instructions of Police and arrange participants to leave the scenes in an orderly manner. In the dispersal operation yesterday, Police deployed the specialised crowd management vehicles and used tear gases, rubber bullets, bean bag rounds and 40mm react rounds, etc., to stop the illegal acts of the protestors. As at 1am today (November 3), over 200 persons were arrested for offences of unlawful assembly, possession of offensive weapon, criminal damage, and using facial covering while at an unlawful assembly, etc. Besides, the Organized Crime and Triad Bureau arrested four men and a woman yesterday for possession of offensive weapon. Officers seized weapons including 188 petrol bombs, several extendable batons and pepper sprays. Police strongly condemn the rioters' violent and vandalistic acts which completely disregard law and order. The continued vandalism is seriously affecting public order and people’s daily living.  Police reiterate that no violent behaviour will be tolerated. Police will continue to take resolute enforcement action so as to safeguard the city’s public safety and bring all lawbreakers to justice. Joint statement by Police and Fire Services Department on the mutual understanding and respect for each other’s work With regard to the incident that occurred during the dispersal operation in Central District last night (November 2), the Police and the Fire Services Department (FSD) jointly issue the following statement: Last night, Police conducted dispersal and arrest operations after a number of serious violent incidents occurred in various districts on Hong Kong Island. A large number of masked rioters illegally blocked roads, committed vandalism and set fires. A fire appliance was dispatched by the FSD at about 6.15pm to tackle a No. 1 fire at Exit C of the MTR Central Station. The supervisor of the appliance and the fire team immediately entered the station to handle the fire incident, leaving a fireman responsible for driving to stay behind in the appliance for logistical support. Rioters ignored Police's instructions and refused to leave when Police's cordon line advanced to near Connaught Road Central at about 7.30pm. In response to the situation, Police deployed tear gas to disperse rioters. The fire appliance was accidentally hit by a tear gas round. The fireman was affected by the tear gas spread through the cabin. He subsequently got off the fire truck to express his dissatisfaction to police officers who were performing duties near the fire engine. There was misunderstanding in the verbal communication between both sides. The matter was tackled and resolved at the scene after further communication. The management of the Police and the FSD had communicated on the incident and explained to each other on the working situation of their frontline officers. Both sides also expressed mutual understanding and respect for each other's work and will continue to work together in the future to stamp out violence. Masked protestors cause nuisances to public and shops in shopping mall in Tuen Mun Attention duty announcers, radio and TV stations: Please broadcast the following message as soon as possible and repeat it at suitable intervals: A large group of masked protestors have been gathering in a shopping mall in Tuen Mun, vandalising and throwing paint at shops. Some masked protestors suspected a passer-by of photographing them and thus surrounded him to demand inspection of his mobile phone. Also, masked protestors blocked main exits of the shopping mall with umbrellas and cable ties. Police stress that blockage of the exits seriously jeopardises public safety in case of emergency. Police appeal to masked protestors to stop all dangerous acts and to stay calm and rational. Masked rioters vandalise facilities in shops in Tai Po Attention duty announcers, radio and TV stations: Please broadcast the following message as soon as possible and repeat it at suitable intervals: At around 3pm, a large group of masked protestors gathered in the Tai Po Mega Mall while some rioters vandalised a restaurant with iron rods and umbrellas, leaving its gate defaced and its display monitors and glass panes shattered. Masked rioters fled and Police officers arrived at scene to handle the crime case. At around 5.30pm, a large group of protestors gathered outside the shopping mall in a standoff with Police officers. Some threw water bottles, eggs and other trash at the officers from height. Police warn the protestors concerned that they are participating in an unlawful assembly. Police officers entered the shopping mall, to which masked protestors had fled, to embark on an arrest operation. Masked rioters vandalise a restaurant in Cityplaza Attention duty announcers, radio and TV stations: Please broadcast the following message as soon as possible and repeat it at suitable intervals: At around 5pm, a group of masked protestors were gathering in Cityplaza and chanted slogans peacefully initially. Later, masked rioters vandalised a restaurant in the mall. At around 6pm, Police officers attended the scene to handle the crime case and embark on an arrest operation. Police warn the masked rioters to stop all destructive and illegal acts and appeal to the protestors to stay rational and calm. They should refrain from obstructing Police’s action. Masked protestors set up barricades blocking Tai Po Tai Wo Road Attention duty announcers, radio and TV stations: Please broadcast the following message as soon as possible and repeat it at suitable intervals: At night, some masked protestors flash mobbed Tai Po Tai Wo Road. They built barricades with miscellaneous objects including public light bus stands, rubbish bins and railings, blocking the carriageways. The masked protestors then fled. Police arrived at scene to clear the barricades and conduct patrol in the vicinity. Police urge the protestors to stop all illegal acts. Police strongly condemn organised violent and vandalistic acts by masked rioters A large number of masked rioters committed organised destructive acts, blocked traffic and assaulted Police officers in various districts of Hong Kong yesterday (November 3). Police express severe condemnation against rioters. Since 1pm yesterday, various groups of protestors gathered at malls in different districts including Sha Tin, Tuen Mun, Tai Po and Taikoo. The situation was generally peaceful initially. Some masked rioters later vandalised MTR facilities and shops in the malls extensively in an organised manner, and blocked exits of the shopping malls. Masked rioters popped up in various shopping malls to escape from Police. In response to the crimes, Police officers entered the malls, including New Town Plaza in Sha Tin, Trend Plaza in Tuen Mun, Tai Po Mega Mall and Cityplaza in Taikoo to embark on the arrest operations. When Police were handling the cases in the malls, some rioters threw miscellaneous objects from height at Police officers. Some rioters surrounded, scolded and assaulted people with different political views. Masked rioters’ blatant defiance of the law cannot be condoned. Police strongly condemn these acts. At around 7.30pm, a wounding case happened in Taikoo Shing, in which five people were sent to hospital and two of them are in critical condition. Police strongly condemn violent acts and will conduct active and thorough investigation with a view to bringing offenders to justice, regardless of their motive and background. At night, some masked protestors flash mobbed Tai Po Tai Wo Road. They built barricades with miscellaneous objects including public light bus stands, rubbish bins and railings, blocking the carriageways. Some protestors in Yuen Long damaged traffic lights and built barricades with miscellaneous objects to block Castle Peak Road - Yuen Long. Police strongly condemn rioters' violent and vandalistic acts. Police reiterate that no violent behaviour will be tolerated. Police will continue to take resolute enforcement action so as to safeguard the city’s public safety and bring all lawbreakers to justice. Protestors block roads and vandalise shops Attention duty announcers, radio and TV stations: Please broadcast the following message as soon as possible and repeat it at suitable intervals: A large group of protestors today (November 5) has occupied the vicinity of Nathan Road, the junction of Chatham Road South and Austin Road in Tsim Sha Tsui. They have built barricades with miscellaneous objects, seriously paralysing traffic. Some masked protestors even vandalised shops by smashing their glass. Police warn the protestors to stop their illegal acts. Police have conducted a dispersal operation and have deployed Specialised Crowd Management Vehicles. Police appeal to bystanders to leave immediately. Members of the public are advised to avoid travelling to the high-risk locations in Tsim Sha Tsui. Terms on Interim Injunction Order granted by the High Court to restrain doxxing and harassment against police officers and their families clarified The Hong Kong Journalists Association (HKJA) today (November 8) applied to the High Court to clarify the terms of the interim injunction order granted on October 25, 2019 (with amendments dated October 28 and October 31 in 2019). In today’s judgment, the Court recognised that there is a serious and prevalent issue of doxxing particularly against police officers and their families (including young children). The Court also acknowledged that the Secretary for Justice is properly bringing this action as guardian of public interest. It was common ground between the parties that: 1.    Acts of doxxing of police officers and their family members are not to be supported or condoned. HKJA agrees that there are serious issues of doxxing, and that it does not seek to prevent police officers from seeking legal protection of the Court. 2.    Whilst the injunction is not intended to stifle genuine and lawful journalistic activities, a journalist who engages in unlawful conduct amounting to public nuisance, harassment andor or intimidation would come within the terms of the injunction. We reiterate that the injunction is not intended to target lawful and legitimate journalistic activities, and under the injunction granted by the Court today, journalists can continue to engage in such lawful and legitimate journalistic activities. However, the injunction remains applicable in prohibiting acts beyond these boundaries. As emphasised by the Court in today’s judgment, freedom of expression is not absolute and is subject to legitimate restrictions. It is therefore important to refrain from acts which are prohibited by Court orders, including the various injunction orders (whether interim or final). Relevantly, unlawful disclosure of personal data intended or likely to intimidate, molest, harass, threaten or pester any police officer(s) and their families without their consent, whether by media or otherwise, would remain to be prohibited by the injunction. Anyone who violates an injunction order may be subject to contempt of court and will be liable to a custodial sentence or be fined if held guilty of such contempt. Rioters commit destructive acts extensively in various districts Attention duty announcers, radio and TV stations: Please broadcast the following message as soon as possible and repeat it at suitable intervals: At night, rioters have set up barricades in multiple locations in Hong Kong, including Causeway Bay, Mong Kok, Tseung Kwan O, Sha Tin, Tuen Mun, and Yuen Long, causing serious obstruction to traffic. Some rioters hurled bricks and hard objects at Police officers, and charged Police cordon line at Nathan Road, Mong Kok. Some rioters also caused extensive damage to shops and public utilities, including banks and MTR stations. They also set alight debris and distribution box, seriously breaching public peace. Some rioters threw petrol bombs towards Tin Shui Wai Police Station, threatening the personal safety of Police officers and other members of public. Police is now conducting dispersal operation in various locations.  We warn the rioters to stop their illegal acts and leave immediately. Residents of the area are advised to stay tuned to the latest situation and if necessary, keep their windows shut and stay indoors. Open fire in Yau Ma Tei At about 9.45pm yesterday (November 8), a group of protestors set up barricades using miscellaneous objects at the junction of Nathan Road and Waterloo Road, Yau Ma Tei. Police officers stopped the protestors and pursued them to the junction of Nathan Road and Hamilton Street. At that time, a large group of rioters armed with offensive weapons suddenly appeared. They continued to charge Police cordon lines and hurled bricks at the Police officers at scene. The lives of the officers were under serious threat. Having given repeated warnings to the rioters in vain, a Police officer fired one warning shot into the sky. Police appeal to members of the public to return any bullets or bullet casings if found. It is an offence for any person to possess ammunition without a license. Offenders shall be liable on conviction to a fine of $100,000 and imprisonment for 14 years. Police severely condemn all violence acts by the rioters and the attacks at Police officers in various districts. Police reiterate that no violent behaviour will be tolerated. Police will continue to take resolute enforcement action so as to safeguard the city’s public safety and bring all lawbreakers to justice. Joint statement by Police and FSD on continuation of mutual support and co-operation With regard to the incident in Tuen Mun District last night (November 8), the Police and the Fire Services Department (FSD) jointly issued the following statement: The Police and the FSD noticed that a verbal conflict happened between police officers and ambulance personnel when both sides carried out their duties at scenes involving unlawful assemblies, road blockages, arsons and other illegal incidents in Tuen Mun last night. The management of both sides conducted enquiries to the frontline staff immediately in order to collect information related to the situation and realised that they were facing tremendous stress upon working under such chaotic conditions. The management recognised the situation and expressed their understanding and concerns of the above situation. With immediate communication among the senior management, the supervising officers and frontline staff of both departments, a mutual understanding was reached and the incident has been properly handled. The two departments will continue to strengthen their guidelines and support their frontline staff to avoid recurrence of unpleasant incidents. In response to the continuous illegal and violent incidents, the Police and the FSD officers will continue the arduous tasks with mutual understanding, support and co-operation in the hope of restoring social stability as soon as possible. Police response to open letter by President of HKUST, Professor Shyy Wei In response to the open letter sent to members of the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (HKUST) yesterday (November 8) by the President of the HKUST, Professor Shyy Wei, Police have the following responses: Police expressed profound sadness over the death of a 22-year-old man who fell down in a carpark in Tseung Kwan O on November 4 and subsequently passed away after treatment in a hospital. Police offered the deepest condolences to his family and friends. The case is under investigation by Regional Crime Unit of Kowloon East. In response to the open letter demanding a thorough and independent investigation into the case, Police wish to point out that, according to the Coroners Ordinance, the coroner has the right to request Police to submit a death investigation report and to order an inquest into the death of a person. Police pledge that Police will investigate into the case in depth. Police also recommend a death inquest and will submit a report to the coroner. If an inquest is to be held, all investigation data will be disclosed in open court. Regarding the demand for clarifications on the cause of the delay from Police and relevant departments, Police held a press briefing jointly with the Fire Services Department (FSD) yesterday. In response to the accusations that Police obstructed ambulances and caused delay in the rescue of the fallen man, Police stress that the rumours are false and groundless. The FSD also gave detailed clarifications that there was no interaction between the ambulance and police officers at the scene during the ambulance call. The ambulance encountered obstruction from buses and private cars en route but not from police vehicles. Police attach great importance to the case and appeal to witnesses or drivers parking their vehicles at the aforesaid location to provide information to Police in pursuit of the truth. Radical protestors vandalise shops and facilities in various districts Attention duty announcers, radio and TV stations: Please broadcast the following message as soon as possible and repeat it at suitable intervals: Since 2pm today ( November 10), radical protestors have been gathering in multiple locations across the territories. They have been loitering in several malls and vandalising shops and facilities therein, neglecting the safety of members of the public and their rights to use public facilities. As at 4pm, radical protestors smashed glass of restaurants of New Town Plaza in Sha Tin and vandalised facilities of Sha Tin MTR Station. In Festival Walk in Kowloon Tong, radical protestors sprayed paint on glass panels of shops. A large group of protestors chanted slogans in the East Point City in Hang Hau. Also, protestors stormed the shops of Citywalk in Tsuen Wan and pushed the tables and chairs on the floor and sprayed paint on them. Police express condemnation against the protestors and warn them to immediately stop all illegal acts. Members of the public in these areas are advised to mind their own safety and stay tuned to Police’s announcements and updates on social media. Violent protestors recklessly damage shops in Kowloon Tong Festival Walk Attention duty announcers, radio and TV stations: Please broadcast the following message as soon as possible and repeat it at suitable intervals: At around 4.30pm today (November 10), some violent protestors recklessly damaged shops in Kowloon Tong Festival Walk. To stop the crime, some Police officers attended scene and arrested several offenders. During the arrest, a large group of protestors were clamouring, some even attacked police officers, resulted in the escape of the arrested person. Police officers therefore used minimum necessary force to effect the arrest action. Police express condemnation against the violent protestors and warn them to leave immediately and stop all violent acts. As some violent protestors are still gathering in the mall, Police appeal to bystanders to leave immediately. Members of the public are advised to mind their own safety and stay tuned to announcements of the mall. Violent protestors commit destructive acts extensively in various districts Attention duty announcers, radio and TV stations: Please broadcast the following message as soon as possible and repeat it at suitable intervals: Since 2 pm today (November 10), radical protestors have been gathering in multiple locations across the territories. They have been loitering in several malls and vandalising shops and facilities therein, breaching of the peace in the mall. As at 5.30 pm, radical protestors vandalised facilities of shops of Festival Walk in Kowloon Tong. Police officers attended scene but was attacked by the violent protestors. One culprit escaped. The arrest action is in progress. Also, some radical protestors stormed the restaurants and vandalised facilities of shops of Citywalk in Tsuen Wan. Protestors blocked exits of the mall, neglecting safety of members of the public at scene. Some protestors were occupying Tuen Mun Heung Sze Wui Road outside V city in Tuen Mun, paralysing the traffic in the vicinity. The situations of New Town Plaza in Sha Tin and East Point City in Hang Hau are peaceful so far. Police express condemnation against the radical protestors and warn them to stop all illegal acts. Since there is crime committed in various malls, Police have the responsibility and legal power to enter the malls for investigation and arrest actions. Members of the public in these areas are advised to mind their own safety and stay tuned to Police’s announcements and updates on social media. Violent protestors continue to commit destructive acts in various districts Attention duty announcers, radio and TV stations: Please broadcast the following message as soon as possible and repeat it at suitable intervals: Radical protestors have been gathering in multiple locations across the territories since this afternoon (November 10). They have been loitering in several malls and vandalising shops and facilities therein, breaching of the peace in the mall. As at 7pm, violent protestors are occupying Sha Tsui Road in Tsuen Wan. Police have used minimum necessary force, including tear gas, to effect the dispersal operation. In Kowloon Tong, Festival Walk has been closed, however, some protestors are still gathering at Tat Chee Avenue. Police express condemnation against all illegal acts by the protestors. Protestors are warned to leave immediately. Residents of the area are advised to stay tuned to the latest situation and if necessary, avoid going to the areas concerned, keep their windows shut and stay indoors. Police dispersal action in Tsuen Wan Attention duty announcers, radio and TV stations: Please broadcast the following message as soon as possible and repeat it at suitable intervals: As the night fell, a large group of violent protestors gathered at Sha Tsui Road and Chung On Street in Tsuen Wan, obstructing the traffic in the vicinity and seriously endangering public order. Having given repeated warnings to the violent protestors in vain, Police officers have deployed tear gas and will use minimum necessary force to effect dispersal and arrest action. Residents of the area are advised to stay tuned to the latest situation and if necessary, avoid going to the areas concerned, keep their windows shut and stay indoors. Police dispersal action in Mong Kok Attention duty announcers, radio and TV stations: Please broadcast the following message as soon as possible and repeat it at suitable intervals: As the night fell, a large group of radical protestors gathered on Shantung Street and Nathan Road in Mong Kok. They also set fire on barricades, neglecting the safety of citizens and other road users. Police warn the protestors to stop all illegal acts. Having given repeated warnings in vain, police officers is now using minimum necessary force to effect dispersal and arrest action. Residents of the area are advised to stay tuned to the latest situation and if necessary, avoid going to the areas concerned, keep their windows shut and stay indoors. Police strongly condemn organised vandalistic acts by violent protestors A large number of violent protestors committed organised destructive acts, assaulted Police officers and blocked traffic in various districts of Hong Kong yesterday (November 10). Police express severe condemnation against rioters. Since 2pm yesterday, radical protestors gathered in multiple locations across the territories, including Kowloon Tong, Tsuen Wan, Sha Tin, Tuen Mun ,Tseung Kwan O, Tai Po and Mong Kok. Protestors vandalised shops and facilities in several malls, causing breach of the peace. They stormed a restaurant near Sha Tin Town Hall and blocked exits of a mall in Sha Tin, neglecting safety of members of the public at scene and their rights to use public facilities. Protestors also vandalised facilities of Sha Tin MTR Station, posing danger to the railway safety. Since there was crime committed in various malls, Police have the responsibility and legal power to enter the malls for investigation and arrest actions.  At around 4.30pm, some violent protestors recklessly damaged shops in Kowloon Tong Festival Walk. To stop the crime, some plainclothes Police officers attended scene and arrested several offenders. During the arrest, a large group of protestors were clamouring, some even attacked police officers and attempted to snatch away the arrested person. Police officers therefore used minimum necessary force to conduct the arrest action. At night, some protestors occupied roads in various locations including Tuen Mun, Mong Kok and Tsuen Wan by setting barriers and burning miscellaneous objects, paralysing the traffic in the vicinity. Police used minimum necessary force to disperse. In the dispersal operation yesterday, Police deployed the specialised crowd management vehicles and used tear gases to stop the illegal acts of the protestors. As at 11.30pm yesterday (November 10), 88 persons were arrested for offences of unlawful assembly, possession of offensive weapon, criminal damage, and using facial covering while at an unlawful assembly, etc. Police strongly condemn rioters' violent and vandalistic acts. Police reiterate that no violent behaviour will be tolerated. Police will continue to take resolute enforcement action so as to safeguard the city’s public safety and bring all lawbreakers to justice. Protestors block roads in various districts and commuters should reserve time Attention duty announcers, radio and TV stations: Please broadcast the following message as soon as possible and repeat it at suitable intervals: This morning (November 11), radical protestors set barricades at multiple locations in Hong Kong, causing serious obstruction to traffic. As at 7.30am, protestors are gathering and blocking carriageways at the locations below: Some radical protestors set barricades at Cross Harbour Tunnel at Hung Hom towards Hong Kong Island direction, causing obstruction to traffic; some radical protestors set barricades at Tate's Cairn Tunnel at Shatin towards Diamond Hill direction, causing obstruction to traffic; and rioters set barricades and set alight debris at Tuen Mun Road near Castle Peak Road towards Kowloon direction, causing obstruction to traffic. Police warn the protestors to stop their illegal acts immediately. Police is now clearing the barricades that caused serious obstruction to traffic. We appeal to commuters to reserve time, and stay tuned to the latest traffic announcements. Protestors block roads in various districts and commuters should reserve time (as at 8.30am) Attention duty announcers, radio and TV stations: Please broadcast the following message as soon as possible and repeat it at suitable intervals: This morning (November 11), radical protestors set barricades at multiple locations in Hong Kong, causing serious obstruction to traffic. As at 8.30am, protestors are gathering and blocking carriageways at the locations below: Cross Harbour Tunnel at Hung Hom towards Hong Kong Island direction; Tate's Cairn Tunnel at Shatin towards Diamond Hill direction; Tuen Mun Road near Castle Peak Road towards Kowloon direction; Tseung Kwan O in the vicinity of Po Yap Road and Tong Yin Street; and Tolo Highway Shatin bound near Ma Liu Shui. Police warn the protestors to stop their illegal acts immediately. Police is now clearing the barricades that caused serious obstruction to traffic, and conducting dispersal operations. We appeal to commuters to reserve time, and stay tuned to the latest traffic announcements. Radical protestors vandalised facilities in various districts and Police officers drew their service arms from their holsters Attention duty announcers, radio and TV stations: Please broadcast the following message as soon as possible and repeat it at suitable intervals: Since this morning (November 11), radical protestors set barricades in multiple locations in Hong Kong. They even dropped large and heavy objects from heights to carriageways posing grave danger to road users. Rioters also threw petrol bomb into MTR compartment and vandalised university facilities. Due to the rioters’ extensive illegal acts, Police has responded with dispersal and arrest operations. During Police operations, one Police officer has discharged his service revolver, one male was shot. In the Shatin and Tung Chung operations, police officers have drawn their service arms from their holsters. Online rumours stated that Police management have ordered frontline officers to recklessly use their firearms in today’s operations. Police clarifies that this allegation is totally false and malicious. Police has strict guidelines and orders regarding the use of firearms. All Police officers are required to justify their enforcement actions. We appeal to radical protestors to be calm and rational. Protestors should stop all acts that threaten others’ safety and obstruct Police’s lawful execution of duty. Accessing school premises for Police’s execution of duties In view of concerns arising from Police’s entry into Hong Kong Polytechnic University (HK Poly U) and Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) to take law enforcement actions today (November 11), Police responded as follows: At about 7.30am, Police received reports that some rioters set up barricades with miscellaneous objects at the entrance and exit of Cross Harbour Tunnel on the Hung Hom side to paralyse traffic. Police were deployed to stop their actions. The group of rioters then ran to the footbridge linking to HK Poly U and entered the campus to escape from Police. When Police officers were carrying out arrest action on the footbridge, a large group of rioters suddenly appeared and threw petrol bombs, glass bottles and hard objects at the footbridge from the campus. To protect the safety of the arrested persons and Police officers and to handle the crime scene, Police entered the HK Poly U campus for a short period of time. After using minimum necessary force to conduct dispersal action and safeguard Police cordon line, Police officers left the campus. At about 7.50am, Police found that a large group of rioters were gathering at a footbridge linking two buildings of CUHK on Biotechnology Avenue and hurling miscellaneous objects at the vehicles driving underneath, seriously threatening the safety of the motorists. Police were therefore deployed to the footbridge and used minimum necessary force to conduct dispersal action. A large group of rioters entered the campus to escape from Police arrest. Police officers later stayed at the footbridge to safeguard Police cordon line and prevent rioters from hurling objects from the footbridge to the vehicles driving underneath again. Under section 10, section 50 (3) and (4) of the Police Force Ordinance, Chapter 232 of the Laws of Hong Kong, Police have the right to enter any public or private premises, including housing estates, shopping arcades, Mass Transit Railway stations, etc upon reasonable doubt that a criminal offence has occurred. Police have established procedures and guidelines on accessing school premises. Police will continue to maintain close communication with the institutions to ensure concerted efforts on maintaining law and order in Hong Kong. Police reiterate that no violent behavior will be tolerated. Police will continue to take resolute enforcement action so as to safeguard the city’s public safety and bring all lawbreakers to justice.
